Kids these days have it way different than I did growing up. Things like smartphones and tablets simply didn’t exist back then and while desktop computers and the Internet were around, neither were nearly as prevalent as they are today.Before the touchscreen gadgets we’re accustomed to these days, working on a computer was actually pretty tough. You had bulky hardware that was far from portable but that was only the start. Getting anything done on an old system meant you had to know a wealth of commands to operate the machine which is what the kids in the clip below found out the hard way.We give away too many of our secrets for free. Unfortunately, the data world we have created has become a watering hole for companies picking off our data, and using it for free and often without our full consent. Google, for example, knows where you like to buy your coffee in the morning, when you get up in the morning, what you are likely to buy next, and so many things about your life. Their whole business model is based on a data world where they pass on your data searches on to others, and then they pay to push adverts to you. But when was the last time that Google or Facebook paid you a commission for pushing an advert in front of you?
So could we create a world which blinded Google, governments, and others, and where no-one could see our purchases, or, in fact, anything about our lives? It would be a world where we can reveal things only to those that we trust. In this world, companies, governments, and others would have to ask us for permission to see our data, and not just push one-sided T&Cs to us. Then, if we had audit/compliance regimes, we could create blinding factors so that only they could see the required information.
So how do we create a world where we can store our secrets in a trusted and then reveal them when required? Let’s say I predict the outcome of an election, but I don’t want to reveal my prediction until after the election. Well, I could store a commitment to my prediction, and then at some time in the future I could reveal it to you, and you can check against the commitment I have made. Anyone who views my commitment should not be able to see what my prediction is.
This is known as Pedersen Commitment, and where we produce our commitment and then show the message that matches the commitment. In its core form, we can implement a Pedersen Commitment in discrete logs [here]. But blockchain, IoT, Tor, and many other application areas, now use elliptic curve methods, so let’s see if we can make a commitment with them. The classic paper is here:The method we have just defined creates a whole new world which respects privacy. In this example, you can replace a transaction value with anything … the cost of your cup of coffee, the time our get up in the morning, your vote in an election, the number of miles you drive, and so on. For all our data we can add blinding values, and where the value used to blind the transaction value is not revealed. Perhaps it could be a single blinding value for a whole lot of transactions, such as in a bank, or where every transaction is blinding?
In a blockchain world, this is a perfect solution, and where we can show our commitments to things, without actually revealing our data. Let’s say you take a test, and you answer each question, and store your answers as commitments onto the blockchain. The blockchain then gives the evidence that you submitted your commitments before the test ended. When the answers are revealed, you can then show your answers to the questions that were correct, and only by revealing the blinding value.
The Pedersen Commitment is thus fit for a GDPR world, and we must move towards it in order to rebuild the Internet in a trusted way. Blockchain will thus provide us with a way to store our commitments, without giving any of our data away, and where we can reveal things as required, and for them to be trustworthy. At the core, is the control of the data, and that it will be in the hands of those with the blinding factors.
Unfortunately, the world we have built is NOT GDPR compliant, and don’t let your CIO tell you so. We must change, and change fast, otherwise, the whole fabric of the Internet will fall apart and be ever more untrusted. We need to put the ownership and consent of data back into the hands of those who created it … and that’s you!
Go support companies building a new world … in Scotland we have companies such as Maidsafe, Spiritus, Trisent, Wallet Services, and who put trust at the core of their world.
Here’s a quick demo on the method I’ve outlined:
Potatoes are the No. 1 vegetable crop in the United States and the fourth most consumed crop in the world, behind rice, wheat and corn, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Historically, Americans ate most of their potatoes fresh. Since the 1950s, however, processed potatoes — French fries and hash browns, for example — have grown more popular as the technology to freeze the vegetables has improved. According to the USDA, processed potatoes composed 64 percent of total U.S. potato use during the 2000s, compared to 35 percent in the 1960s. Americans, on average, eat 55 lbs. (35 kilograms) of frozen potatoes per year, 42 lbs. (19 kg) of fresh potatoes, 17 lbs. (8 kg) of potato chips and 14 lbs. (6 kg) of dehydrated potato products.

Potatoes are often thought of as a comfort food — richly mashed with butter and sour cream or crisply fried in vegetable oil. But when prepared in these ways, they can lead to weight gain, diabetes and heart disease, according to the Harvard School of Public Health. 

In fact, a study published in 2017 in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition found that people who ate fried potatoes twice a week saw an increased risk of death. The study examined potato intake in 4,400 people between the ages of 45 and 79. By the end of the eight-year study, 236 people had died. Researchers found that those who ate fried potatoes — French fries, hash browns, home fries and more — were more than twice as likely to have died. 

The study did not, however, find any correlation between non-fried potato consumption and risk of death. This supports the stance of Victoria Jarzabkowski, a nutritionist with the Fitness Institute of Texas at The University of Texas at Austin: potatoes aren’t necessarily bad for you. When cooked the right way — without heaps of butter, cheese or cream — they can even be good for you. 

Potatoes are low in calories — a medium-sized baked potato contains only about 110 calories. They are a good source of vitamins C and B6, manganese, phosphorus, niacin and pantothenic acid.

